SITE SURVEY SCHEDULING AGENT
Current application: 20.12.12
Updated: 9 October 2026

START HERE

Use app.py as the entry point. Run these commands from the project folder:

    python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
    python -m streamlit run app.py

Use Python 3.10 or newer. Provide completed-survey training through the sidebar
or as Predictive Model.xlsx beside app.py. Configure API keys through environment
variables or .streamlit/secrets.toml; see README.md for names and optional features.

The application should display Version 20.12.12. The active route engine remains
scheduler_v20_10.py; its filename is not the application's release number.

UPDATING AN EXISTING INSTALLATION

Stop Streamlit completely before replacing matching project files, then restart.
Keep exact Python filenames so imports work. Keep your training data and secrets.
For a hosted Streamlit app, deploy the matching files and reboot the application.

The v20.12.12 ZIP is an incremental update to v20.12.11. Extract it into the existing project folder,
replacing matching files and retaining the tests/ subfolder. It contains only
changed files, not a complete installation. Keep all other modules, training
data, requirements and credentials.

Replace every matching file in this ZIP together and fully restart Streamlit.
Do not replace your completed-survey workbook with test or sample data.

If you see:
    fill_team_gaps() got an unexpected keyword argument 'expand_underfilled_days'

the new app is loading an older team_scheduler.py, either from disk or from
memory. The same applies to an unexpected 'saturday_time_window' or
'surveyor_name' argument after this
update. Stop the running process with Ctrl+C, confirm the updated module is in
the same project folder as app.py, and restart. A browser refresh is insufficient.

NEW IN 20.12.12

The 13 Lavender Crescent/The Hollies sites are a Monday-only visit group.
Requested-day allocation keeps compact compatible groups with one surveyor
where capacity allows. With the supplied availability and home-to-area times,
the AL3 group is assigned to Conor. Retry Day Assignments now shows the group
and its size. Actual route feasibility still applies; rerun the schedule.

The ten internal holds from the latest output have been approved for another
visit. They are marked APPROVED_INTERNAL_RETRY with original notes retained.
The approvals do not bypass completed-work, booking or replacement-SA checks,
and do not automatically approve a new failed visit.

RETAINED FROM 20.12.11

Check Training source and Accepted completed surveys in the sidebar before
scheduling. Upload your full completed-survey history if the bundled workbook
is out of date. Duration Training in the export records the selected source,
fingerprint and accepted counts by building size. The previous exports showed
a sharp drop in training history; this update cannot recover missing data.

Training caches now use workbook contents. Sparse residential models have
labelled low-confidence fallbacks; original equations remain first choice.
Joe/Harrison refusal matching now recognises the audited wording variations.
Building coordinates are used for Google journeys where valid; fallback
addresses have asset identifiers and duplicate postcodes removed.

Rerun the schedule with your full training workbook. A live Google rerun is
needed to verify the unusual return-home journey and resulting day lengths.

RETAINED FROM 20.12.10

The Saturday hours section has separate first-survey-start, last-survey-finish
and return-home dropdowns. Defaults are 10:00 / 13:00 / 14:00; adjust all three
to suit the half day. Tick Saturday in the availability table for each person
working it. Saturday remains restricted to cannot-complete retries.

These Saturday times apply during initial planning, requested-day priority,
weekly-note reroutes and final gap filling. Monday-Friday retain their original
hours. Existing lunch, travel, access and booking checks still apply.
Capacity Review uses the actual shorter window; Run Settings records the times.

RETAINED FROM 20.12.9

Requested retry weekdays receive first priority in allocation, weekly routing
and final gap filling. Soft suggestions may fall back if they cannot be used;
explicit access-only days remain mandatory. Inspect Retry Day Assignments and
Requested Day Honoured? in Retry Decisions to see the result.

Saturday is an optional availability checkbox, off by default. Tick it for
people who will work that day. Only cannot-complete retries can go on Saturday.

The 9 October operational review reopens unresolved second/latest failed visits
by Harrison Grice and latest access-refusal failures recorded by Joe Reynolds
or Harrison Grice through that date. Another surveyor performs the revisit.
Original failure counts stay intact. A later failure returns to normal triage.
Completed work, existing booking exclusions and replacement-SA checks still apply.

Upload a fresh cannot-completes workbook with Resource Name and visit dates
linked to each failed Service Appointment ID. Names on new appointments do not
identify the failed-visit surveyor. Incomplete evidence is reported rather than
used to infer an exception. The standalone access report includes this evidence.

CURRENT FILLING BEHAVIOUR

Nearby work is tried first, including the normal 15 km search. If at least
30 minutes remain before the survey cut-off, the final pass tries remaining
eligible buildings without a distance limit. Final filling has no minimum
survey-to-travel ratio; initial planning retains its efficiency preference.

Access, booking, completed-work, lunch, survey-finish and return-home checks
remain enforced. Existing visits are preserved. The wider search can increase
routing requests and run time; it cannot guarantee every day will be full.

Use Day Filling Review, Gap Filling, Capacity Review and Unplaced Eligible to
inspect what was tried and which work remains. Gap Filling appears when visits
were added. The separate cannot-completes access report remains available.

CHECKS AND DOCUMENTATION

With dependencies installed:
    python -m unittest discover -s tests -v

The v20.12.12 update passed 172 offline regression tests, plus Python
compilation and an actual-data allocation replay. These checks excluded
Streamlit booking-selector UI tests and made no live routing or AI calls.
The route replay uses synthetic times and is not a replacement schedule.

README.md explains the project, current rules, inputs, outputs and setup.
CHANGELOG.md summarises recent changes. No dependencies have been added.
